Now you should have opened up a
project within QGIS and be
looking at a blank map canvas
like this.
The first thing we're going to
do is add a basemap onto our
canvas so that when we add in
our data we have a reference to
see where the sightings actually
happened.
I'm going to add in a base map
using a plugin called
QuickMapServices that you can
see in the web tab here.
If you don't already have this
plugin, what you need to do is
go into the Plugins tab
and go into Manage and Install
Plugins.
Once you have this window appear
in the search bar, type in
QuickMapServices
and once you see it you can
click on it
and where my button says upgrade
plugin yours will say install
plugin so click on that and that
will install the
QuickMapServices.
So once you have that installed,
you can go into the web tab
and you'll see it here. But you
probably won't have as many base
maps as I do, and that's because
you need to add the contributed
pack. To do that, hover over
QuickMapServices and go into
Settings.
Once you're in the settings, go
into More Services and click Get
Contributed Pack.
So now you'll have all these
different providers of different
spatial data. We're going to go
into ESRI and click on ESRI
Standard to add in this basemap.
So now we've got our basemap,
let's add in our data.
To do that, we're going to use
the browser window on the left.
And we're going to navigate to
where we created our materials
folder
So to do that, you can, if you
saved it in your computer, you
can go into home, or if you
saved it in your C drive, you
could go into that.
For me, it's in my Computer and
my OneDrive,
so just expand the folders that
you need to expand to get to the
Hippogriffs folder
and then the Materials folder.
So now we can expand this
and we can see we have our
hippogriff sightings table in
here.
So to put it within our project
we just need to click hold and
drag it into our layers list
that's underneath our browser
and drop it in here.
And now if we click on this
within our layers and right
click
we can choose open attribute
table
to see our table of data.
So the first column we can see
is the OID or the object ID and
we have a different ID for each
row.
We can see that these are
organised in a bit of a weird
way, so just click on the
heading of the row to get them
in chronological order.
We have some null rows at the
top but we can just not worry
about those ones.
And then the next column we have
is the unique key.
So we have a different number
for each GPS point of each
sighting, and we have one GPS
point per row or per sighting.
We then have the date that the
sighting happened
and we have the longitude and
latitude of the sighting. And so
this is what's going to enable
us to put our data on the map
and to see where the sightings
happened.
We've also got the type of
sighting, so footprint or
remaining food or tracks.
And then we've got some
unnecessary columns here on the
right,
so you can just right click on
these
and click Hide column.